Welcome!
For detailed information on how to use the key and access the Metrolinx Open API, please
see https://api.openmetrolinx.com/OpenDataAPI/Help/Index/en, and an explanation
of the fields and data used in each API call can be found in the specification document
at https://api.openmetrolinx.com/OpenDataAPI/Content/API_Data_Catalogue.pdf

Here's a quick summary of what you need to know:
 All of the URLs start with https://api.openmetrolinx.com/OpenDataAPI/ and end
with your key ?key=300xxxxx
For example, to access the GO GTFS vehicle positions feed, the URL would be
https://api.openmetrolinx.com/OpenDataAPI/api/V1/Gtfs/Feed/VehiclePositio
n?key=300xxxxx
 UP Express GTFS real time feeds include UP in the URL, for example
https://api.openmetrolinx.com/OpenDataAPI/api/V1/UP/Gtfs/Feed/VehiclePo
sition?key=300xxxxx
 All feeds are also available in either XML or JSON format. The GTFS feeds are also
available in protocol buffer; instructions on how access these formats are included
on the Introduction page.
 There is a limit of 300 calls per second; exceeding this limit could result in you
receiving 429 errors. Any perceived unusual activity (i.e. excessive number of
incorrect calls or 429 errors) could get flagged and could result in a suspension of
your key while investigated.
What kind of data do we offer?
Real time General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) data, which is broken down into:
 "vehicle position,” which shows all live trips with trip number, start time,
destination, current vehicle location in latitude/longitude and stop ID as well as
vehicle number
 "trip updates," which shows all live trips with trip number, direction, start time,
destination and detailed information for each upcoming stop on the trip including
the stop ID, scheduled arrival time in epoch format, delay deviation and whether
it is a scheduled stop or one that has been added
 "alerts," which shows general service alerts, planned bus stop relocations and
route detours broken down by route/line, station construction and elevator status
notices, both of which are broken down further by line and station.

Bus Stop information (stop), which is broken down into:
 "next service," which shows predictions for all upcoming trips at that stop
 "details,” which shows stop name and code, if bus and/or train is present, fare
zone number and lists what facilities and if parking is available at that stop
 "destinations," which shows list of routes that serve this stop along with direction
of service and final stop code
 "all," which shows list of all active bus stops by location code, stop ID and includes
stop name and location name plus location type.
Fare information (fares) returns fare information between two stop or station numbers.
There are two feeds – one shows the current fares and the other is for a specific date.
Service update, which is broken down into:
 "service alert," which shows system alerts, planned bus stop relocations and
route detours broken down by route/line and elevator status notices which are
broken down by line and station
 "information alert," which shows station construction notices and parking
notices broken down by line and station,
 "Union departures," which shows a list of upcoming train and bus departures
from Union Station including departure time, trip number, line, if bus or train
platform number [platform numbers don't display until 10-15 minutes prior to
departure] and rail stations or major bus stops served
 "exceptions train" and "exceptions bus" list any trips that have been cancelled
or modified including stops that may have been removed or added; may contain
non-revenue trips
 "exceptions all" is same as "exceptions train" and "exceptions bus," but together
in one place
Service at a glance, which summarizes the status of live trips, is broken down into:
 "buses," which shows all live bus trips with trip number, start and end times, route
number, direction, trip destination sign info, current latitude and longitude of
vehicle, delay deviation, if vehicle is moving or not, first, last, current and next stop
code, if vehicle is at stop or between stops and when the data was last updated
 "trains," which is same as “buses,” except that it shows the number of cars on the
train and uses line codes and station codes instead of route numbers and stop
numbers.

Schedule, which returns schedule and trip planning information, is broken down into:
 "journey," which displays the specified number of upcoming trips between two
specified stops/stations on a specific date and time including if bus or train, trip
number and route number; works with direct service only
 "all," which shows list of all bus and train routes operating on the specified date
including route number, name, destinations, directions and if is bus or train
 "line/all," which shows all trips on specified bus route or train line in specified
direction for specified service day including code for each stop served, scheduled
time there and stop order
 "line/stop," which shows stop names and numbers for specified route and
direction on specified date and if stops are major or not; bus routes will only show
variant (route number + letter where applicable) specified and "trip" (behaves
differently between live and later or earlier trips - live trips show latitude and
longitude, if moving or not, scheduled and predicted time for stops along route
and track information for trains. Later and earlier trips do not show latitude and
longitude, moving, predictions or track information).
 “trip,” which shows destination stop code, current lat/long and both scheduled
and estimated arrival and departure times at each stop (including the code) for
the trip number specified. Lat/long and arrival predictions are only available for
live trips; historic and future trips will only show scheduled times and predictions
don’t show more than 30 minutes ahead. Train trips will also show the platform
number.
Please note that calls under “Fleet,” which are listed in the data catalogue, have been
deprecated and will return a 403 error.
As well, the ServiceUpdate/MarketingAlert, ServiceUpdate/ServiceGuarantee and
ServiceataGlance/UPX calls are no longer used and will not return any data.

Note that this document is confidential and solely intended for the purpose of
users authorized by Metrolinx to access the Metrolinx Open API. It may not be
distributed or shared without prior written consent from Metrolinx.

Last updated: February 1, 2026
